Glint 1.0 release post (#1276)
ember-learn/ember-blog: content/glint-1-0-released.md

reached a level of stability and functionality that we're comfortable recommending it even for
large applications with a low tolerance for churn.

## What is Glint?

In an Ember application, templates are the connective glue that bind together all the different
pieces of your codebase. On its own, however, TypeScript can't see what's happening in your
templates, so any typechecking or other helpful aids it provides can only ever operate upon
small islands of disconnected code, and all of your connections are completely opaque to the
tooling.

[Glint][glint-docs] enables TypeScript to understand your templates as well, meaning you get
end-to-end type safety for your entire application. You also get editor support for things like
documentation and type info on hover, jumping to definitions, and automated codefixes and
refactorings.

![A component argument is renamed in a TS file and propagated to templates that reference it, then vice versa.](/images/blog/2023-04-27-glint-1-0/rename.gif)

<!-- alex ignore just -->

And, just like your editor can use TypeScript under the covers to provide many of those features

> even in vanilla JavaScript files, Glint can do the same for templates with a JS backing class.

Reviewer: A thought, on reading this: we should *show* the easy example of a backing class, but I think as written it slightly implies that it *only* works with backing classes. I assume you're going that way because it doesn't work with template-only components without some MASSIVE hoop jumping, but it'd be good not to imply it, I think?

```suggestion
even in vanilla JavaScript files, Glint can do the same! For example, here Glint is showing info in a template with a JS backing class:
```

Author: Fair point! You do get _some_ nice support for template-only components even without hoop jumping, but there it's largely when you're invoking other components, and that's a lot of context to have to put together for a simple example 🙂

![Type info and documentation prose displayed on hover in a template with a plain JavaScript backing class.](/images/blog/2023-04-27-glint-1-0/js-info.png)

> 

Reviewer: We should also call out that it works *even better* in both JS and TS with `<template>`.

```suggestion

Glint also works even better with the `<template>` tag feature which enables Glimmer and Ember apps
to put their component templates right next to their JavaScript or TypeScript code.

```

> ## What's Next?
> 
> As both Ember and TypeScript continue to evolve, we'll be working in Glint to keep pace with those
> changes. There are also plenty of opportunities still to add further bells and whistles to the
> language server to reach full parity with native TypeScript.
> 
> If you've been holding off on Glint due to its experimental status or stability disclaimers, though,
> now is a great time to explore [setting it up in your application][setup] or [adding Glint types to
> addons you maintain][authoring-addons]. And again, Glint can be useful even in [apps with no
> TypeScript at all][js-apps]!
> 

Reviewer: I think we should make the call to action way more prominent:

```suggestion
## Get Started

If you've been holding off on Glint due to its experimental status or stability disclaimers, now is
a great time to explore [setting it up in your application][setup] or [adding Glint types to addons
you maintain][authoring-addons]. And again, Glint can be useful even in [apps with no TypeScript at
all][js-apps]!

## What's Next?

As both Ember and TypeScript continue to evolve, we'll be working in Glint to keep pace with those
changes. There are also plenty of opportunities still to add further bells and whistles to the
language server to reach full parity with native TypeScript.

```

Author: Good callout.
